README.md, before:

# Python Monorepo using Poetry v1.1

Welcome!

## Tools used

- Python:
    - `pipx`, installed via `pip install pipx`.
    - `poetry`, installed via `pipx install poetry`. This should give you `poetry` with version 1.1.X.
        - Ran `poetry config virtualenvs.in-project true`
    - `pre-commit`, installed via `pipx install pre-commit`.

## How is this monorepo structured?

- `libs`: Contains Python packages that function as libraries, i.e., packages that every project can depend upon. Libraries can also depend upon each other.
- `projects`: Actual applications that can be deployed elsewhere.

## How was this monorepo created?

- Root folders are created manually.
- Within folder `libs`, create libraries using command `poetry new xyz_lib_a`, etc. Within folder `projects`, create projects using command `poetry new xyz_proj_a`, etc.
- Added dependencies and code to relevant libraries/projects.
- Added a basic pre-commit hook configuration in `.pre-commit-config.yaml`.
- Run `pre-commit install` and `pre-commit run --all-files`.
- Check that everything works in shell using `poetry install`, `poetry update`, `poetry run pytest tests`, etc.
- Added a `.gitignore` to deal with unwanted folders, Python caches, venvs, etc.
- Added a `pyproject.toml` for the end-to-end integration tests.

# Poetry comments

- It seems that Poetry just unions the normal and dev dependencies and then tries to resolve them. So if you have `lib_b = 0.1.0` in your normal dependencies and `lib_b = { path = "../lib_b", develop = true}` in your dev dependencies, then this will correctly work with the local version if its version in the `pyproject.toml` is 0.1.0.
- You can depend on a local package, but it will only install the normal dependencies of that local package, not its development dependencies.
- This means that chaining multiple local packages is not possible, since only the normal dependency will be looked at and it will most likely not be found. E.g., if you have `lib_a -> lib_b -> lib_c`, then `lib_a` will find the local development version of `lib_b` just fine, but not `lib_c`.
- One way to solve this chaining issue is to add the local development versions to the top of the chain. E.g., adding `lib_c` as a dev dependency to the `lib_a` `pyproject.toml`. Note that it does not need to be added as an official package.
- Note that for some reason the dependencies need to be ordered in a specific way: dependencies lower down the chain should be placed above higher dependencies.
- The `poetry.lock` will contain the packages of the development environment, so it should/will contain the local development packages, not the official releases!

Commit message:

rename the projects dir to apps

README.md, after:

# Python Monorepo using Poetry v1.1

Welcome!

## Tools used

- Python:
    - `pipx`, installed via `pip install pipx`.
    - `poetry`, installed via `pipx install poetry`. This should give you `poetry` with version 1.1.X.
        - Ran `poetry config virtualenvs.in-project true`
    - `pre-commit`, installed via `pipx install pre-commit`.
    - `black`, installed via `pipx install black`.

## How is this monorepo structured?

- `libs`: Contains Python packages that function as libraries, i.e., packages that every project can depend upon. Libraries can also depend upon each other.
- `apps`: Actual applications that can be deployed elsewhere.

## How was this monorepo created?

- Root folders are created manually.
- Within folder `libs`, create libraries using command `poetry new xyz_lib_a`, etc. Within folder `projects`, create projects using command `poetry new xyz_proj_a`, etc.
- Added dependencies and code to relevant libraries/projects.
- Added a basic pre-commit hook configuration in `.pre-commit-config.yaml`.
- Run `pre-commit install` and `pre-commit run --all-files`.
- Check that everything works in shell using `poetry install`, `poetry update`, `poetry run pytest tests`, etc.
- Added a `.gitignore` to deal with unwanted folders, Python caches, venvs, etc.
- Added a `pyproject.toml` for the end-to-end integration tests.

# Poetry comments

- It seems that Poetry just unions the normal and dev dependencies and then tries to resolve them. So if you have `lib_b = 0.1.0` in your normal dependencies and `lib_b = { path = "../lib_b", develop = true}` in your dev dependencies, then this will correctly work with the local version if its version in the `pyproject.toml` is 0.1.0.
- You can depend on a local package, but it will only install the normal dependencies of that local package, not its development dependencies.
- This means that chaining multiple local packages is not possible, since only the normal dependency will be looked at and it will most likely not be found. E.g., if you have `lib_a -> lib_b -> lib_c`, then `lib_a` will find the local development version of `lib_b` just fine, but not `lib_c`.
- One way to solve this chaining issue is to add the local development versions to the top of the chain. E.g., adding `lib_c` as a dev dependency to the `lib_a` `pyproject.toml`. Note that it does not need to be added as an official package.
- Note that for some reason the dependencies need to be ordered in a specific way: dependencies lower down the chain should be placed above higher dependencies.
- The `poetry.lock` will contain the packages of the development environment, so it should/will contain the local development packages, not the official releases!
